DROWSINESS DETECTION PAPER
This paper talks about how to use EEG to detect drier drowsiness. So EEG is basically, a method to record brain’s electrical activity by placing electrodes on the scalp. The challenge in using EEG for predicting drowsiness is because, it varies among subjects.
DATA PREPARATION
In the study, The subjects participated in a sustained-driving task within a virtual reality (VR) driving simulator. EEG signals were recorded from 30 electrodes at a sampling rate 500Hz. It was then filtered to remove the noise and other artifacts. EEG sample of 3 second length prior to car deviation events was extracted. Sampled were categorised into drowsy or non drowsy state based on the reaction times. Then the EEG data was normalised
NETWORK DESIGN
The network uses separable convolutions to process the spatial and temporal aspects of the EEG signals. It breaks down convolution into 2 parts
•	Depthwise— Applies the same filter to each input channel individually. 
•	Pointwise— Applies a 1x1 convolution to combine the output of depthwise convolution.
These form the first two layers of the network. The 3rd layer is activation layer, which uses ReLu as the activation function. It converts all negative values to 0. The 4th layer is the batch normalization layer which normalizes the output of previous layer to improve performance. The 5th layer is a pooling layer called Global average pooling layer(GAP) to reduce dimensions and retain important features. The model ends with a softmax activation layer.
We name the model as “Interpretable CNN” model.
INTERPRETATION TECHNIQUE
The interpretable CNN has an interpretation technique wherein we get to know which part of the EEG signals contribute most to classifying drowsiness
•	We use saliency maps to visualize which region of input data is of more importance. 
•	They are generated by using gradient of output to input, It basically shows how changes in input would affect the output. Gradients are visualized as heatmaps.
•	One common method is to assign weights to different parts of input data. Higher the weight means higher their influence on prediction of drowsiness.
•	This reveals biologically meaningful features
FEATURE EXTRACTION
We implement 5 baseline methods for feature extraction, he first three baseline methods use different forms of band power features(relative power, log power and power ratio), while the fourth baseline method uses the wavelet entropy features. The fifth baseline method uses a combination of four entropies features.
We test them on 8 classifiers for comparison.
IMPLEMENTATION and EVALUATION
Several variations of the model are made for comparison. Each deep learning model was trained from 1 to 50 epochs and repeated the process for 10 times. This created 110 folds for each epoch. The proposed model Interpretable CNN had an overall better performance than the other four models, and it reaches the peak accuracy of 78.35% in 11 epochs.  EMG activities could be a common factor that affects the classification across different subjects. the sensor noise should be eliminated, and the eye movements and EMG activities should be discriminatively treated. Our model outperforms every other traditional method. It’s ability to learn meaningful features like alpha spindles which are indicators of drowsiness, has contributed to its success.

RESULT
The model achieves an average accuracy of 78.35% for cross-subject drowsiness recognition, higher than conventional baseline methods (53.40%-72.68%) and other deep learning methods (71.75%-75.19%). It recognised alpha spindles as strong indicators of drowsiness across different subjects.
