NEURAL NETWORKS –
Broadly neural network is something which helps a machine realize a particular object in different ways, like for example a number 3 can be written be in many different ways but our brain interpret it as 3 just like neural networks can also recognize a 3 written in different ways. 

Neural networks are inspired by human brain, just as our brains contains neurons and store info. in that, neurons in neural networks also contains neurons that store information in the form of numbers between 0 and 1.A neural network consists of a 28 by 28 pixel of input image and each neuron contains a number that corresponds to the grey scale (0 for black to 1 for white).

 "C:\Users\prana\OneDrive\사진\Screenshots\Screenshot 2024-05-09 152344.png"

The number inside a neuron is known as its activation. The 784 neuron make up the first layer with consisting of some hidden layers in between and at last we have the layer consisting of 10 neurons each containing a number from 0 to 9. These hidden layers contains specific part of a number such as for nine one neuron would contaion a loop and other would contain a line etc.

"C:\Users\prana\OneDrive\사진\Screenshots\Screenshot 2024-05-09 153808.png"

The actiavtion of one layer is interlinked to other layers,one layer determines some sort of orientation and then passes it on to the other and it keeps on going until and unless it comes to the last layer which gives us the output number.
Weights and biases
Each connection between neurons has a specific ‘weight’ assigned to it. Then the weighted sum of all the activations in the first layer is calculated. Sometimes we want the sum to be greater or less than a certain value for it to be considered, in that case, a number called ‘bias’ is added. This sum represents the activation of the neuron in the next layer. To get it between 0 and 1, we use the sigmoid function.

In neural networks, a sigmoid function is a type of actiavtion function used in the hidden layers .
 
Here: 
*x is the input function 
*σ(x) is the output ranging from 0 to 1.

"C:\Users\prana\OneDrive\사진\Screenshots\Screenshot 2024-05-09 165811.png"




Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) in Machine Learning

CNNs are tools used in machine learning, basically related to vision and image processing (grid like data). It is type of deep learning algorithm which is well designed for image recognition and processing tasks.
It consists of various layers such as-

1.) Convolutional Layers
2.) Fully Connected Layers
3.) Pooling Layers

-WHAT DO CONVOLUTIONS SHOW UP?

It is a concept of basically combining two functions, not simply adding or multiplying something but making a new function out of the two. It tells us about applying the concept to image processing using kernels(In image processing context the 3 x 3 grid chosen is called kernel.
 with different kernels, you get different effects.) and filters.

"C:\Users\prana\OneDrive\사진\Screenshots\Screenshot 2024-05-09 192259.png"

To understand the concept of convolution,let's take an example given in the video of a pair of dicewhere each number on a die has its own probability.Now to find out the probability of the numbers adding up to a particular number, we use convolution.

"C:\Users\prana\OneDrive\사진\Screenshots\Screenshot 2024-05-09 205514.png"

Other application of Convolution is to smoothen out an image.Let's say, we take a group of 4 number numbers each having some value.After convolving the original function, we get a smoother version.

FFT Convolve

It has been seen that when we multiply two polynomials together, the coefficients of the product can be find out by convolving the product of their polynomials.

The degree n of a polynomial can be found if we know the value of the polynomial at n different points, but with n tending to a very large number this method is not so efficient so we use discrete fourier transformation.

The time complexity of a convolution is $O(n^2)$ wher n is the size of input, for FFTs we use the concept of polynomial multiplication analogy in which we multiply
the lists to find out the polynomial and putting the values at different points to find out the function.
















